DOCSP-35364: Flutter SDK - Nested Collections of Mixed Data (#3201)
mongodb/docs-realm: source/sdk/flutter/realm-database/model-data/data-types.txt

   or ``Map`` type of ``RealmValue``, which enables more flexibility 
   when modeling unstructured data. Refer to  :ref:`flutter-model-unstructured-data` 
   for more information.
   
   This update also includes the following breaking changes, which may affect 
   your app when updating to v2.0.0 or later: 
   
   - ``RealmValue.type`` is now an enum of ``RealmValueType`` instead of ``Type``.
   - ``RealmValue.uint8List`` is renamed to ``RealmValue.binary``. 

.. TODO: Add this back to above note once upgrade page is available
.. For more information on how to update an existing app from an earlier 
.. version to v2.0.0 or later, refer to :ref:`flutter-upgrade-v2`. 

The `RealmValue <https://pub.dev/documentation/realm_common/latest/realm_common/RealmValue-class.html>`__
data type is a mixed data type that can represent any other valid 
data type except embedded objects. In Flutter SDK v2.0.0 and later, ``RealmValue`` 
can represent a ``List<RealmValue>`` or ``Map<String, RealmValue>``. 

``RealmValue`` is indexable, but cannot be a primary key. You can also create 
collections of type ``RealmValue``. 

Define a RealmValue Property
````````````````````````````

> To define a property as ``RealmValue``, set its type in your object model. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To define a ``RealmValue`` property , set its type in your object model. 
```

Author: 😅 thanks for catching

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/flutter/data_types_test.snippet.realm-value-model.dart
   :language: dart

.. note:: ``RealmValue`` Not Nullable But Can Contain Null Values

   When defining your Realm object schema, you cannot create a nullable ``RealmValue``.
   However, if you want a ``RealmValue`` property to contain a null value,
   you can use the special ``RealmValue.nullValue()`` property.

Create a RealmValue 
```````````````````

To add a ``RealmValue`` to a Realm object, call ``RealmValue.from()`` on the data or ``RealmValue.nullValue()`` to set a null value.

> .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/flutter/data_types_test.snippet.realm-value-from.dart

Reviewer: Suggestion: I think for readability, comments above each of the examples would be more helpful than having to read the camel case name to know what the example is for. A simple format like``// To add a single value`` would be helpful

   :language: dart

.. _flutter-access-realm-value-type:

Access RealmValue Data Type 
```````````````````````````

.. versionchanged:: 2.0.0

   ``RealmValueType`` enum replaces ``RealmValue.type``.
   ``RealmValue.binary`` replaces  ``RealmValue.uint8List``.

To access the data stored in a ``RealmValue``, you can use: 

- ``RealmValue.value``, which returns an ``Object?``. 
- ``RealmValue.as<T>``, which fetches the data and casts it to a desired type.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/flutter/data_types_test.snippet.realm-value-value.dart
   :language: dart
   :emphasize-lines: 4, 13

You can check the type of data currently stored in a ``RealmValue`` property by 
accessing the ``type`` property. Starting with Flutter SDK v2.0.0, this returns a 
``RealmValueType`` enum. In earlier SDK versions, the SDK returned a 

> ``RealmValue.value.runtimeType``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``RealmValue.value.runtimeType``. The following example uses RealmValueType to run calculations based on the data type.
```
Could intro example with something like that^

Author: added

RealmValue
~~~~~~~~~~

.. important:: Flutter SDK v2.0.0 Changes to ``RealmValue``

   Flutter SDK version 2.0.0 updates ``RealmValue`` to allow a ``List`` 
   or ``Map`` type of ``RealmValue``, which enables more flexibility 
   when modeling unstructured data. Refer to  :ref:`flutter-model-unstructured-data` 
   for more information.
   
   This update also includes the following breaking changes, which may affect 
   your app when updating to v2.0.0 or later: 
   
   - ``RealmValue.type`` is now an enum of ``RealmValueType`` instead of ``Type``.
   - ``RealmValue.uint8List`` is renamed to ``RealmValue.binary``. 

   For more information on how to update an existing app from an earlier 

>    version to v2.0.0 or later, refer to :ref:`flutter-upgrade-v2`. 

Author: not yet, the page is part of another PR. i've commented these last lines out for now, and will re-add it once the page is available

data type is a mixed data type that can represent any other valid 
data type except embedded objects. In Flutter SDK v2.0.0 and later, ``RealmValue`` 
can represent a ``List<RealmValue>`` or ``Map<String, RealmValue>``. 

``RealmValue`` is indexable, but cannot be a primary key. You can also create 
collections of type ``RealmValue``. 

.. note:: ``RealmValue`` Not Nullable But Can Contain Null Values

   When defining your Realm object schema, you cannot create a nullable ``RealmValue``.
   However, if you want a ``RealmValue`` property to contain a null value,
   you can use the special ``RealmValue.nullValue()`` property.

To define a property as ``RealmValue``, set its type in your object model. 

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/flutter/data_types_test.snippet.realm-value-model.dart
   :language: dart

To add a ``RealmValue`` to a Realm object, call ``RealmValue.from()`` on the data or ``RealmValue.nullValue()`` to set a null value.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/flutter/data_types_test.snippet.realm-value-from.dart
   :language: dart

.. _flutter-access-realm-value-type:

Access RealmValue Data Type 
```````````````````````````

> .. versionchanged:: 2.0.0

Author: i think it's just how the description portion of the versionchanged direction is formatted, unfortunately...

   ``RealmValueType`` enum replaces ``RealmValue.type``.
   ``RealmValue.binary`` replaces  ``RealmValue.uint8List``.

To access the data stored in a ``RealmValue``, you can use: 

- ``RealmValue.value``, which returns an ``Object?``. 
- ``RealmValue.as<T>``, which fetches the data and casts it to a desired type.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/flutter/data_types_test.snippet.realm-value-value.dart
   :language: dart
   :emphasize-lines: 3, 11

You can check the type of data currently stored in a ``RealmValue`` property by 
accessing the type property. Starting with Flutter SDK v2.0.0, this returns a 
``RealmValueType`` enum. In earlier SDK versions, the SDK returned a 
``RealmValue.value.runtimeType``.

> .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/flutter/data_types_test.snippet.realm-value-type.dart

Author: Updated snippet and highlighting

   :language: dart
   :emphasize-lines: 4

.. _flutter-nested-collections-realm-value:

Nested Collections of RealmValue
````````````````````````````````

.. versionadded:: v2.0.0

Starting with Flutter SDK v2.0.0, a ``RealmValue`` data type can 
contain collections (a list or map, but *not* a set) of ``RealmValue`` elements.

These collections of mixed data can be nested and can contain other 
collections. They can also be :ref:`listened to for changes like a 
normal collection <flutter-realm-list-change-listener>`.

You can leverage these nested collections to define unstructured 
or variable data in your data model (for more information, refer to 
:ref:`<flutter-model-unstructured-data>`). 

To create nested collections of mixed data in your app, define the mixed type 
property in your data model the same way you would any other ``RealmValue`` type. 

> Then, you can create the list or map collections using ``RealmValue.from()``.

Author: Added link

RealmValue
~~~~~~~~~~

.. important:: Flutter SDK v2.0.0 Breaking Changes to ``RealmValue``

   Flutter SDK version 2.0.0 updates ``RealmValue`` to allow a ``List`` 
   or ``Map`` type of ``RealmValue``, which enables more flexibility 
   when modeling unstructured data. Refer to  :ref:`flutter-model-unstructured-data` 
   for more information.
   
   This update also includes the following breaking changes: 
   

>    - ``RealmValue.type`` is now an enum of ``RealmValueType`` instead of ``Type``, and ``RealmValue.value.runtimeType`` is added.

Reviewer 2: `RealmValue.value.runtimeType` is not technically added. `Object.runtimeType` comes from the framework (i.e. it's built in for all dart objects). It's just that previously `type` was just a shorthand for `value.runtimeType` and now users can just access it themselves.

   - ``RealmValue.uint8List`` is renamed to ``RealmValue.binary``.

>    These changes require a migration for existing apps. 

Reviewer 2: I think this may be a little extraneous information and also has the possibility to throw people off. Migration is typically associated with data migrations and might imply that you'd be forced to execute some migration on your database, when in reality, one needs to just update some code. We should also qualify the statement with "may" since there are probably many apps that don't use `RealmValue` at all and even the ones that do may not have used the `.type` property.

   For information on how to update an existing app from an earlier 
   version to v2.0.0 or later, refer to :ref:`flutter_upgrade-v2`. 

The `RealmValue <https://pub.dev/documentation/realm_common/latest/realm_common/RealmValue-class.html>`__

> data type is a mixed data type that can represent any other valid Realm 

Reviewer 2: It cannot represent embedded objects.

> data type. In Flutter SDK v2.0.0 and later, ``RealmValue`` can represent a List or Map collection (but *not* a Set) of mixed type. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
data type. In Flutter SDK v2.0.0 and later, ``RealmValue`` can represent a ``List<RealmValue>`` or ``Map<String, RealmValue>``. 
```

   When defining your Realm object schema, you cannot create a nullable ``RealmValue``.
   However, if you want a ``RealmValue`` property to contain a null value,
   you can use the special ``RealmValue.nullValue()`` property.

To define a property as ``RealmValue``, set its type in your object model. 

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/flutter/data_types_test.snippet.realm-value-model.dart
   :language: dart

To add a ``RealmValue`` to a Realm object, call ``RealmValue.from()`` on the data or ``RealmValue.nullValue()`` to set a null value.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/flutter/data_types_test.snippet.realm-value-from.dart
   :language: dart

.. _flutter-access-realm-value-type:

Access RealmValue Data Type 
```````````````````````````

.. versionchanged:: 2.0.0
   ``RealmValueType`` enum replaces ``RealmValue.type``.
   ``RealmValue.value.runtimeType`` added.
   ``RealmValue.binary`` replaces  ``RealmValue.uint8List``.

In Flutter SDK v2.0.0 and later, you access the type of data with the 
``RealmValueType`` enum and the value with ``RealmValue.value``. 
In earlier SDK versions, you access the type of data with 

> ``RealmValue.type``.

Reviewer 2: I think this paragraph is confusing. I would suggest rewording it to something along the lines of:

> To obtain the data stored in a `RealmValue`, you can use `RealmValue.value` which returns an `Object?` or `RealmValue.as<T>` to fetch the data and cast it to a desired type. You can check the type of the data stored in a `RealmValue` by accessing the `type` property. Starting with Realm Flutter v2.0.0, that will return a `RealmValueType` enum value, while in earlier versions it would return `RealmValue.value.runtimeType`.

Author: Updated this and the example to demonstrate both methods of accessing data

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/flutter/data_types_test.snippet.realm-value-type-value.dart
   :language: dart

In version 2.0.0 and later, you can also access the runtime type with ``RealmValue.value.runtimeType``.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/flutter/data_types_test.snippet.realm-value-runtime-type.dart
   :language: dart

> .. _flutter-nested-collections-realm-value:

Reviewer 2: I don't think we should show this - it's generally a bad practice and we only added it in the past to have something. Accessing the runtimeType has always been available, but instead of doing that, you'd probably want to use an expression:

```dart
final value = mixedValue.value;
if (value is int) {
  sum = sum + value;
} else if (value is String) {
  final subValue = value.substring(5, 8);
}
```

Author: Replaced this with example of accessing the type with an expression

Nested Collections of RealmValue
````````````````````````````````

.. versionadded:: v2.0.0

Starting in Flutter SDK version 2.0.0, a ``RealmValue`` data type can 
contain collections (a list or map, but *not* a set) of ``RealmValue`` type: 

- ``RealmValue<List<RealmValue>>``

> - ``RealmValue<RealmMap<String, RealmValue>>`` 

Reviewer 2: These declarations are incorrect - it's just a `RealmValue`.

Author: Updated here and in Define Schema page
